**Introduction**   
The [Map of Early Modern London](http://mapoflondon.uvic.ca/index.htm), or [MoEML](http://mapoflondon.uvic.ca/index.htm), is an interesting project that uses an old map from 1561. None of the original copies of the map still exist today, and only a 1633 modified version still exist. The map was called the Agas map and was made by the surveyor Ralph Agas, who was born 1540. He is also famous for his work in mapping Oxford and Cambridge.  The map is very detailed for its time, it has all the street, houses, bridges, and shops listed. The website also has the texts from *Survey of London*, created by John Stow, an English historian and antiquarian who was born in 1525.

**Review**   
Janelle Jenstad, the project director, lead a large team of people creating the website. They wanted to use the map to see how Shakespeare’s city was and locate where famous people lived or where famous articles were written. The website is very accessible and comes off as very easy to use. There are four mains options on the home screen and each lead to another page that explains more about the project. Usually every page has a side bar with page contents, credits, and XML. You can find out who worked on what rather easily and see the page marked up in different forms of XML. An issue with the side bars is that if someone clicks on two of the side bars, the both stay out and block one another. The only way to make one minimize is to click it again. There is also two bars, one about the project and one about the news of the website. One of the things about this website is that it is still a work in progress and has many things to complete.

The [map](http://mapoflondon.uvic.ca/map.htm) is the main focus of the project and is easy to access. The information about the map and its history are also very available. The map is a Graphic User Interface,which allows us to visualize literary and historical data. Clicking for the [full map](http://mapoflondon.uvic.ca/agas.htm) will bring you to a giant map of all of 1500’s London. Here you can zoom in or look at all the locations. You can check off church locations, and it will show you every church that existed back then in London. You can also click the drop down bar to get a list of every individual church and click to see it. The map also allows you to search for something by name or draw on the map. The map works, but it still has some problems. If you click on two different categories, they can sometimes be outlined in the same color. This makes it hard to tell the difference between the two categories. They also do not have every location marked yet. Brothels and bookstores are not on the map, yet they are mentioned in other places on the website. Another nitpicky thing is that the categories bar cannot change size. This means it is hard to get a clean view of the entirely. But other than that, the map is very nice and you can zoom in for a great amount of detail. The map originally had an interface based on the OpenLayers 3 library.  After the team scanned in the map, they had to redraw almost all the map so that it would help the users interact with the map. This map could be very useful and has many interesting things.

The secondary focus of the page is the [*Survey of London*](http://mapoflondon.uvic.ca/stow.htm), by John Stow. The Survey of London is a book about London and its structures, but it also had some biographical parts in it. There are multiple versions of it, which were created after Stow’s death. The website has a little section about the author and the book itself, for people who do not know him. The team TEI-encoded the transcripts and based it off on EEBO-TCP’s XML text. So far, they only finished the first version of the book and are still doing the other versions. One problem with the text is that it is written in old English and the website does not offer anything to help people understand it. The addition of this text will help people understand the work better.

The [Encyclopedia](http://mapoflondon.uvic.ca/mdtEncyclopedia.htm?listType=subcategory) page is a very interest part because it has many different sections. It has a list of all the places in London at the time and a list of famous people in London with a link to a biography about them. They have a section called orography, but is just articles about organizations such as livery companies. The final page of the website is the [Library](http://mapoflondon.uvic.ca/mdtPrimarySourceLibrary.htm?listType=subcategory). It has all the primary sources that the team used. Most of these writings come from rich people, as many come from the mayors of London during that time and has some royal writing. The good thing about the Encyclopedia and the Library is that the team gives the user the ability to look at everything the team did and get a better understand of old London.
	
 **Conclusion**  
Originally I thought the project was just a map of old London, but soon I realized it was a very different goal of trying to better understand the world of the past. The Map of Early Modern London is very user friendly. The team definitely did a good job and knew what they wanted to create. Even someone with no knowledge of what London was like during the 1500’s could use this because they have sources explaining everything. There are some problems with the website, but most of them are minor. If they keep fixing and adding things, the final product would be very good. While I did not get a great idea of how they accomplished their main goal, the products that they produced are very useful and important.
